So let's finish that setup of the products table which I need for my first little demo code. Here in the table
editor so to say, in the workbench, we can define how a product's entry should look like.
For that we first of all define the name of a field, ID and the data type
and for the ID, an integer is fine.
We can also check that it should be the primary key by which records in this table will be identified,
that it must not be null, that it should be unique,
that should definitely be the case, if it should hold binary data which is not the case, if it's unsigned
so if it holds no negative values which should also be the case because that should be an integer starting
at 1 and then incrementing, here
if it is zero fill and for us important, if it's auto-incrementing and that should be the case because
every new record should receive that automatically
and it should be a higher number than in the last record.
Now a product also typically has a title and there I'll use a var char which is basically a string,
I'll just define that it may be up to 255 characters long and longer titles will simply be cut off,
so that's something to keep in mind.
It must also not be null,
so we have to have a value in there but I don't need any other setting here. For a product,
I also want to have a price
and here I want to have a double so that we can enter decimal places,
this must also not be null.
I also want to have a description which now will not be a var char
but will be text and if you're wondering which data types are available, that is exactly what I meant,
you should definitely consult a full SQL course to learn more about the available data types and
how to work with them.
So here I got my text which is simply a longer text than the var char which has a limitation
and I will have an image url which I'll also set to var char 255 which means longer urls
also won't work. With that
I defined how my product should look like,
you can leave everything else as it is and then on the bottom right, I then click on apply here.
It shows you the SQL statement
it will execute and you could execute this on your own, for example in node of course to always
create this new table, here we'll do it in the workbench,
so click apply, close and now on tables, you see the new products table and if you click this icon here
on the very right, you can see the entries in there.
By the way, you also see the SQL query that was executed to look into that
and that's pretty similar to the query we're executing here.
So now that the table is set up, we just need to enter one dummy data so that we have something to fetch
and I will simply add a book here,
whoops, with a price of let's say 12.99, description
this is an awesome book and also an image url.
Now if you've got problems copying a value in here, you simply have to type it manually, copying also
didn't work for me,
of course you can also enter some dummy value and just live with no image being displayed.
Now let's also enter an ID here though that should be auto-generated if you don't do it,
click on apply on the bottom right,
apply here,
close and now if you again click on this
icon here next to products and the left column,
you'll see that now this one element was added here.
Now that we get a book in here,
let's go back to our node code and there, we can now chain then and now this is something provided by
the fact that we're using promise here when exporting the pool.
We now get back promises when executing queries like this with execute and promises have two functions,
then and catch. Let's explore them in the next lecture.